In this video, we'll cover physics for unity sprite shape.
We'll learn what is a sprite shape and how to set it up and install it.
Then we'll play with it inside the Unity Editor.
This is a preview feature in public beta.
The sprite shape works by tiling sprites along spline paths created in the scene as game objects.
You can think of this like the platforms in an organic 2D platformer game.
The game object set up with Transform and a Sprite shape controller.
Then we link to a sprite shape profile asset.
The spreadsheet app is a unity preview feature in public beta and must be manually added through the
Unity Package manager.
Now this is already done for you in our sample project, but for new projects let's learn how.
First, open up the latest public release of Unity Unity 2019 one or greater.
Open the Unity Menu.
Window Package Manager.
Select all Packages.
Advanced Show Preview Packages.
Select the 2D Sprite Shape.
Now Select either download or update as it's shown for you.
And then optionally, if you want, you can import samples to have a look at what unity provides.
There's two steps to creating the spreadsheet.
First, we create a sprite shape profile.
The spreadsheet works by tiling sprites along a spline path created in the scene as game objects first
set up an asset called the Sprite Shape Profile.
It is used to define and store information about a particular type of shape.
Open the menu in unity assets.
Create sprite shape profile.
You can choose between to the open shape, which is a long stripe platform or a close shape, like a
bounded shape such as a ground or the background behind your characters.
Select the created sprite shape profile and set the texture property now to create the sprite shape
itself.
Open the menu Unity Game object Sprite Shape.
Select the created game object in the hierarchy window.
Set the profile property to the sprite shape profile you just created.
And now we can edit the spline.
As you can see in the animation, we're able to add, move and delete different points.
Now to add physics, select the game object again and add the following components.
Edge Collider to DX Rigid body to DX.
And if you don't want this piece to fall with gravity, set the body type to kinematic.
Now let's take a look at a demo spreadsheet begin.
Inside this scene will create a new spreadsheet.
We'll play with the scene and see how it goes.
Let's open up our next project.
Here will be the spreadsheet.
Begin.
There's two steps to creating this bright shape.
First, we'll create the sprite shape profile, and then we'll create the sprite shape itself.
Let's add in a texture.
And now let's create the sprite shape itself.
We'll add in the profile.
And now we see our profile working together with the sprite shape.
Let's edit the spline.
Now let's add physics.
Will set the body type to kinematic so it doesn't fall with gravity.
Now let's bring in a few test subjects.
Looks great.
We have an organic platforming environment with full physics and supporting these objects, being able
to bounce off of them and interact nicely.
You could duplicate this and create as many platforms as you want and reuse them.
In the next section, we'll look at Unity three D physics components.